The kind of last of the many different
kinds of use cases that we've
been just chatting about,
over the course of our time together.
Which is like, just how hard it is
to show a loading indicator when
you think about the edge cases.
Right if it's your first
loading indicator, yeah,
I show the loading indicator and
then I take it down right,
it's one of those things where it's
like a fast API is almost the bane of
your existence when it comes to
implementing a loading indicator.
Right, because what you don't want
is like a flash of sadness ,right,
where especially cuz the thing I work on
the portal now is we have two versions.
And we have a cloud version and
we have a open source version
you run locally on your machine.
We tell you about network latency when
it's running on your machine, real fast.
Lemme tell you it's the same UI for
both, right, and so
kind of dealing with the idea that
you could have, a normal API.
And then a lightning fast API creates
a certain number of problems.
So, what we're gonna try to do here is,
we're going to kind of create
a fake API response that we can kind of
control, via this number of milliseconds.
We will choose when we want to show a
loading indicator cuz again, if it's back
real fast, we don't immediately show
one that immediately take it down.
Right, that's the first edge case so you
want to deal with the loading indicator.
The second one is, by solving for,
I only want to show the loading indicator
if things have been loading for a second.
You introduce a new problem,
which is you've just moved
your problem forward in time.
Which is what happens if you show
the loading indicator after a thousand
milliseconds, and the data comes
back 1,001 milliseconds, right?
You're back to your flash of sadness,
sometimes what we should do in this
case is we lie, we lie to our users.
We say it's still loading just simply so
that we don't flash things and
make them uncomfortable.
With maybe we'll keep it up for
what seems just a little bit,
we can start loading the data if you want,
but don't just flash and
take it down, be gentle with it.
So we have the ability for
how long has your take,
how long we wanna wait until
we show a loading indicator.
And how long that loading
indicator should be up for, right?
And again, a lot of this is based
on the feeling, basically for
these values, you tend to adjust
them until everyone is happy.
But yeah, there's no hard and
fast rule, but I'm also not a designer.
So, we've got the three fields.
We've got whether or
not we should show a loading indicator,
we've got the form itself, and
we've got this little fake fetch
data which I'll show you real quick.
It looks at the response time,
it logs that it's fetching,
it waits however long our fake
API request is supposed to wait.
And then it just looks a console
it's done, and then it completes,
right ,there's no actual data to show
in this case I could also like map
it to some fake data.
If I really wanted to but
this is basically it simulates something
that takes however long we have in
that top input field, show loading,
takes the bull lane, shows you this really
neat loading indicator or nothing at all.
And we're basically in this case,
making sure we don't accidentally
submit the form, and
then we've got some cached pieces.
All right, so let's start with
just the simplest version of this,
just to make sure everything
works as we expect.
So we'll say loading, we'll say that
is from the event, when they form, submit.
And when that happens, pipe it, will tap.
Showloading is true, just verify
that everything works as expected,
put a semicolon in there,
which should have been a comma.
And we'll say loading.subscribe.
I tend to like to do the DOM manipulation
in the tap, because then like,
I'm not all the things that happen
are like contained in there.
It's not like cool, everything happens
you're putting it there taken down but
then the last thing happens subscribe,
I don't wanna deal with that.
So, we'll say subscribe and
now this should when I hit the button.
Let's see.
Here we go, shows loading indicator and
this also logs that we're loading,
so now what we wanna do is,
show it, load our data,
take it down, right?
That's the kind of next obvious
thing to do here, so we'll show it.
And then in this case,
because I was robbed of using an exhaust
map in the last example,
I'm gonna use my exhaust map.
Mostly because like this is also a fake
situation where they slam on that
button let's see what the time, so
let's let's start a new one over again.
Why someone would slam on a button in this
case, I don't know, but we'll do that.
So we'll see an exhaust map,
where we will return, fetching the data,
I could probably do that in line as well,
but we're gonna play around
with it a little bit.
So, we'll show the data, we'll show
the loading, will fetch our data,
and then we will take down
our loading indicator, right?
Again, this is the naïve version for
now, and
we'll deal with all
the edge cases shortly.
All right so then, show loading, false,
okay, this should do the thing.
Fetching for five seconds, and
that takes it down, that works for
the happy path, right,
when your requests all take five sec,
I can't believe I just
called that the happy path.
When your API's all take at least five,
listen, we've all worked API so
take 30 seconds,
don't act like you haven't.
But, even sometimes what I would do for
an API that took five seconds,
even though it's suboptimal.
Okay, that's cool, but
what if we wanna delay that we
talked about delay in that
loading indicator a little bit.
And, so
what would that look like in this case?
Well, there's a few ways
that we could do it,
we could create like an observable.
And sometimes if I just wanna delay
something and tap, I could timer it,
I'm just gonna create one real quick,
and then pipe it.
I could even, yeah,
would complete at that point,
let's not deviate right now, will delay
it for whatever show loadings value is.
And then we will tap.
So this one will get it and
it will basically delay for
that amount of time and
then it will show it.
So what would this look like?
Well, now what we could do is in this
exhaust map, what we could say is,
Contact my show loading, and
then we'll go fetch the data.
Now, what do you think
the problem is here?
We're basically show
the loading after a second and
then we're gonna go fetch the data, right?
So this is building towards the answers to
our problems, but it's not there just yet.
So wait a second.
Cuz then we immediately,
take that off for a second.
We could do is, concat it.
Well let's make a high loading.
But this is not gonna work as we expect,
we'll talk about that
in a second I mean it was good work
as we expect, it's not gonna work.
So, we wanna do is get Nate show it,
fetch the data hide it.
These are delayed, so
we're gonna need to do is figure
out the different situations
that we need to deal with okay.
What happens if the data comes back before
we even show the loading indicator, right?
We're gonna need to time some of these,
and let's do a spoiler alert.
Do we have a operator that
sees which one of these
things does the thing first brace, right?
So that will ultimately be
a thing that we look at, but
let's see it in its not great state first.
Shows up every second we fetch,
That is back,
and we have to call that false.
>> And then I think that on
the show loading needs to be true.
>> Yep, I was talking and typing at the
same time, and swap those the wrong way.
>> Cool.
>> Shows it, fetches,
gets the data back, takes it down,
like not terrible, but
the idea that we even delayed for
a second before fetching the data.
That's one way to lie to your users.
We try to lie gently we don't tell
egregious lies that hinder performance,
we're just trying to protect them.